FROM https://bgb.bircd.org/manual.html#commandlineparams

expressions, breakpoint conditions, and debug messages
In the "condition" field of a breakpoint, one can enter an expression. for example ($ff44)=$90, to trip on the start of each vblank. If PC is "any" (not given), the condition will only trip once every time when it becomes true. If PC is given, then the condition trips every time if it is true. This behavior can also be changed in the settings, tab Debug.

besides constant values and addresses, one can use the following:

CPU registers: AF, BC, DE, HL, SP, PC, B, C, D, E, H, L, A, ZERO, ZF, Z, CARRY, CY, IME, ALLREGS
other state values: ROMBANK, XRAMBANK, SRAMBANK, WRAMBANK, VRAMBANK, TOTALCLKS, LASTCLKS, CLKS2VBLANK, SCANLINE

These values can also be evaluated by using the menu, "Debug", "Evaluate expression".

Besides the above, a breakpoint condition such as "..5" breaks once every 5th time the breakpoint is hit.

In debug messages and expressions, VALUE is the value currently being read or written and TARGET is the address (useful when logging debug messages on watchpoints)

The unit of all "clocks" values is 1 nop in doublespeed mode, or about 0.5 microseconds. Clocks values are, like all other numerical values, in hexadecimal. The expression "ZEROCLKS" will reset the counter for LASTCLKS. TOTALCLKS is the same value as the clocks counter ("internal divider") in the IO map.

To add "ld d,d" debug messages into the code, assemble an opcode in the form: .msg 'message' where message is the message content. debug messages can contain expressions between %%. When enabled in the settings, whenever a debug message is encountered in the code, it will be logged to the debug messages window or log file.

Debug messages also support ternary operators in the form: "%boolean expression%text if true;text if false;".
It was possible from 1.5.5 to 1.6.4 to have %% expressions in the true/false strings, but this is ambiguous and is no longer done by default in 1.6.5. To have this behavior, use a ? after the condition, such as: %condition%?true;false;

The internal code that makes up a debug message is as follows:

ld d,d
jr @end
dw $6464
dw $0000
db "message"
@end

One can also create debug messages that point to a null terminated text string elsewhere:

ld d,d
jr @end
dw $6464
dw $0001
dw address
dw bank
@end

since version 1.6.5, gbdk "printf" debug messages are supported. In the code viewer, a printf debug message looks like and can be created with: .msg_printf

The internal assembly code of a printf message is:

ld d,d
jr @end
dw $6464
dw $0200
@end

When a printf message is encountered, the null terminated C style format string is read from address HL, and the data is read from address DE. the format string can have the following format tokens, which will read the value from the data. Sizes are given in bytes. Data values are little endian.
token	size	description
%d	2	signed 16 bits word, decimal
%u	2	unsigned 16 bits word, decimal
%x	2	16 bits word, hexadeximal, lowercase
%X	2	16 bits word, hexadeximal, uppercase
%hd %hu %hx %hX	1	integer values as above, but 8 bits
%ld %lu %lx %lX	4	integer values as above, but 32 bits
%lld %llu %llx %llX	8	integer values as above, but 64 bits
%f	4	single precision float (IEEE 754)
%lf	8	double precision float (IEEE 754)
%s	2	16 bits address of a null terminated string
%c	2	character (8 bits, followed by a zero byte)
%%	0	% sign
All integer number types can be length padded, for example %04x to pad a hexadecimal word to length 4 with zeroes.

After The printf debug message is generated, it is processed as a debug message so expressions such as %ROMBANK% are filled in. The format string and resulting message have a maximum length of 4095 bytes, after which they are truncated.
Commandline parameters
All -params also work as --param.

    [-rom] <filename of rom or state> load a rom or save state
    -setting name=value load bgb with a custom setting. this is useful for running multiple (linked) instances on a different position (with winx setting).
    -set name=value shorthand for -setting
    -listen [[addr:]port] start bgb listening for game link. if addr/port is omitted, take from settings
    -connect [addr:port] start bgb connecting for game link. if addr/port is omitted, take from settings
    -demorec filename record demo
    -demoplay filename play back demo
    -demoplayrec filename play back demo until the end, then continue recording
    -demoofs offset apply offset in bytes to demo when playing
    -demoseek offset fast forward to a point in the demo (combined with -demoplay or -demoplayrec), then presses the pause/debugger key. offset in seconds, decimals allowed, negative is "from end"
    -demonoreset disable support for $ff byte hard reset in demo
    -demo152conv filename convert demo between old (1.5.2) and new format (swap nibble order). Works in both directions.
    -demo152format play or record demos in old 1.5.2 format
    -demo157compat emulate an inaccuracy in 1.5.7 and before (only for demo playback) to allow playing old demos of some games (such as pokemon red and blue) in SGB mode.
    -headless headless mode: run without window, without sound/graphics/joypad IO. exit when it would break to debugger or when demo finishes. useful for automation. use with start /wait to wait for it to finish.
    -autoexit terminate when breaking to debugger or finishing demo playback. implied by headless.
    -nowarn suppress most warning dialogs. useful with automated or unattended use. implied by headless.
    -nowriteini do not write the bgb.ini file. implied by headless.
    -ini [filename] use another ini file instead of bgb.ini
    -runfast run undelayed. useful with headless mode.
    -hf shorthand for -headless -runfast
    -stateonexit [filename] save a state when exiting. useful with headless mode.
    -screenonexit [filename] save a screenshot when exiting. useful with headless mode.
    -nobatt disable loading/saving of .sav (battery) files.
    -nobattsave load .sav file read only if it exists, and don't save it.
    -loadbatt filename load .sav file from filename to go with rom, regardless of -nobatt or settings. useful for automation.
    -state filename used together with -rom, you can load a save state and specify the rom to use, overriding the rom path given in the save state.
    -br [address][/[condition][/d]][/debugmsg][,...] comma separated list of breakpoints. only in combination with -rom
    -wp [address][/[value][/drwxj]][/debugmsg][,...] comma separated list of watchpoints. only in combination with -rom
    -ab alias for -wp (compatibility with older BGB)
    -watch automatically reload rom when it changes on disk
    -watchnoreset automatically reload rom, without resetting the gameboy, when it changes on disk
    -zipnocrc32 skip crc32 check when loading ZIP or GZIP files
